welcome back to movie recaps today i
will show you a sci-fi
romance drama film from 2016 titled
passengers
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
the interstellar spaceship avalon can be
seen traveling through space
headed to a colonized world called
homestead 2 all of its quarters are
empty
the vessel is on autopilot the 258 crew
members as well as the 5 000 passengers
are in hibernation
suddenly the ship passes through an
asteroid belt that's weakening its
shields
power is diverted to the main shield but
the ship is on a collision course with a
giant asteroid
suddenly the asteroid collides with the
ship causing various malfunctions
the ship begins self-reparations but one
of the hibernation pods activates
the passenger awaken is jim preston a
mechanical engineer
his pot opens and an automated system
helps with his awakening
telling him that he spent 120 years in
suspended animation and that the ship is
only four months away from homestead 2.
he's told that he will be able to spend
that time enjoying the luxurious aspects
of the ship
jim receives instructions about his id
band his cabin and the primary
activities he's to take part off
prior to the arrival on the planet
excited and nervous to meet the people
on the ship
he gets ready leaves his cabin and walks
into an automated class meant for an
entire learning group
jim looks a little anxious as the
hologram explains the situation on earth
calling it overpopulated overpriced and
overrated
it tells him to hold his questions to
the end of the lesson but jim keeps
asking why he's the only one there
he realizes that the hologram can't
answer him and goes to search for other
people
he gets to the main concourse of the
ship no one is there either
but an automated informational desk
offers to help
jim asks to talk to a real person and it
sends him off to talk to a steward
but when he finds that no one is there
too he asks to speak to the captain
when he gets to the bridge even though
he doesn't have access to go inside
he can see that none of the main crew is
awake either jim eventually goes to the
observatory where he finds out that the
ship is actually 90 years away from
homestead 2.
he realizes that he woke up too soon so
he rushes back to the concourse and
sends a message back to earth asking
what he should do
because he doesn't know how to get back
into hibernation the communication
system informs him that the overpriced
call to earth would take approximately
55 years to get an answer back
jim is devastated he walks around and
finds the ship's bar
or he sees another person as he's
talking to the bartender something seems
strange about him
when he goes to get him a drink jim
realizes that he's an android
it's called arthur june wants to find
out more information from him
but he can't even explain to the android
how it's possible for him to be there
ahead of time
jim wakes up in his cabin the next day
and goes to the cantina where he quickly
realizes that most of the things on the
menu are reserved for gold class
passengers only
he gets his plain coffee and tries to
figure out how to fix his hibernation
chamber
after he gets all the tools he manages
to get it operating and lies down inside
of the pod
but nothing happens next he decides to
use the tools he found to get into the
cruise hibernation chambers
that doesn't work either small
malfunctions happen around the ship
jim keeps returning to the bar to drink
but mostly to talk to arthur
the android gives him some advice that
convinces him to break into one of the
gold class rooms and try to have some
fun on the ship jim tries all the
restaurants
the games the entertainment system but
as time passes he becomes even more
miserable to be there alone
one day he gets drunk and wanders around
the hibernation pods
when he stumbles into an airlock with
spacesuits designed for spacewalks
jim gets into a suit and goes to the
airlock pushes a lever and then the
button to release the airlock door
once outside the ship he's mesmerized by
the view he's the only conscious human
being experiencing that moment in time
jim releases the magnets on his boots
and floats in space
feeling devastated he comes back inside
takes off the suit
but goes back to the airlock without it
on he pulls the lever
ready to end it all but changes his mind
in the last moment
runs back inside and slips on a bottle
jim stands up and is instantly drawn to
a woman in one of the pods
named aurora he searches for her files
in the directory and listens to her
passenger interview
becoming enamored with her later has
seen sitting next to her pod
still listening to her interviews back
in the bar he's reading some of her work
and is talking to arthur about her
writing
he becomes obsessed with the irony of
his situation going to another planet
for a better life
waking up early and not getting there
and finding his perfect woman
only for her to be out of reach jim
keeps thinking about her and starts
getting the idea to wake her up too
he talks it over with the android but he
doesn't understand the conundrum
if he wakes her up for his own benefit
he'd be stranding her there with him to
die on the ship
jim decides against it first but as time
goes by he can't let it go
until one day he changes his mind he
goes to her pod and manages to activate
it
as she's waking up and going through the
same process as he did he hides and goes
back to his room
a little bit later he goes to the main
concourse hoping to find her
and there she is just as confused as he
was a year ago
jim tells her they're the only ones
awake and takes her to the observatory
then he tells her that he can't get to
neither the crew nor the main commands
of the ship
aurora freaks out and wants to get back
into her pod
when they get to it jim explains that
there is no special equipment on the
ship that can help them get back into
hibernation
effectively telling her that they're
stranded they go back at the concourse
and he tells her that she should rest
since she just came out of hibernation
she feels sorry for him
having to spend more than a year alone
on the ship jim goes back to the bar
feeling regretful about what he did he
asks arthur not
to tell aurora that he was the one that
woke her up the next day
rora wakes up she goes back to the
concourse and asks the automated info
desk about the hibernation pods
jim joins her there and they go to get
breakfast as they leave
the info desk has some sort of
malfunction in the cantina
aurora realizes that jim has been eating
the same breakfast for more than a year
and gets him one of the gold class menus
they talk about the possibility to fix
the pods but
unlike jim aurora isn't ready to give up
she searches through the infirmary
then goes through research documents
eventually ending up at the cruise
hibernation quarters trying to break the
doors open
jim notices more malfunctions throughout
the ship some time later
aurora laments about her life on the
avalon she writes
jogs around the ship and swims in the
pool becoming more and more aware of her
situation
she goes to the cantina to interview jim
thinking that his story might be
interesting
she asks why he immigrated to the colony
jim answers with slogans from the
company first
but then further explains that he hopes
that on the new world he could be
somebody
he could build a life later they end up
in the observatory and
aurora finally shares her reason to be
there unlike the other passengers on the
ship
she has a round-trip ticket her idea was
to go to homestead 2
live there for a year and come back to
earth to become the first journalist
that has ever done that
writing the greatest story that ever was
aurora slowly gives up on finding a way
to fix their current predicament and jim
figures out a way to cheer her up
he takes her dancing to the cinema and
to the basketball court
lastly he takes her to the bar to meet
arthur she relaxes for a bit
until she remembers their situation jim
is left alone with the android
feeling awful about what he's done to
her the next moment he's seen tinkering
with something in the other aurora walks
into the observatory to find a miniature
of the chrysler building he made for her
some time later they go on a date at the
bar they have diner and share stories
about their lives
she tells him that her father died when
she was a teenager
after the dinner jyn takes aurora to the
airlock and they get into the spacesuits
they go out for a spacewalk together jim
finally has someone to share the
magnificent experience with
jim switches off the magnets on their
boots and they float together in space
they come back inside and immediately
kiss retreat to his cabin and sleep
together
soon after they start living like a
couple aurora moves into his cabin and
writes about her life on the ship
they jog together eat together sleep
together
jim explores the ship further and finds
the hydroponics bay
he brings aurora flowers one day the
ship passes by a red giant and they go
to the observatory to see it
it's aurora's birthday so later that
night they celebrated in one of the many
restaurants on the ship and then the bar
jim goes to the washroom and prepares
the ring he made for aurora
while she stays in the bar chatting with
arthur the android tells aurora that jim
woke her up intentionally
unaware that he was still to keep that a
secret suddenly
jim comes back and she confronts him in
absolute disbelief
she runs away furious and panicked jim
comes back to his cabin to find all her
things gone
he runs into her in the cantina the next
day but the moment he speaks
she runs away aurora is desperate one
night she goes over to jim's cabin
punching and kicking him wanting to kill
him talking to her over the calm because
she keeps avoiding him
jim tries to apologize and explain his
actions to her
he tells her he fell in love with her
but aurora doesn't care
she can't forgive him for taking her
life one night
as jim is in his cabin another
malfunction happens
the ship faces a critical error and the
main command shuts down
later he walks into the elevator and it
malfunctions
aurora walks into the main concourse and
sees that jim has planted a tree there
then she goes to the cantina where the
food dispensary is also malfunctioning
suddenly both of them hear the voice of
the deck chief over the comms
asking who planted the tree they both
run into the concourse and see gus
mancuso standing in front of jim's tree
they introduce themselves and tell the
chief about the situation
he doesn't understand how three pods
could fail mancuso takes them to the
bridge and he discovers that there is
something wrong with the ship
but the information on the systems has
to be checked manually
when they leave the bridge a robot
almost falls on their heads and the two
of them tell mancuso that malfunctions
have been happening all over the ship
more frequently
he says that shouldn't happen as he
shows them how to collect the data
mancuso checks on the pods when jim
joins him there
he's figured out what happened with
aurora's pod the deck chief finds what
jim did to be terrible
later he's at the bridge checking the
collected data when aurora joins him
they talk about what happened with her
pod but he tells her that he can't do
anything about it
jim walks in with the 16th broken robot
mancuso feels the hibernation sickness
so he goes to rest but as he walks out
he coughs out blood
that night aurora can't sleep so she
goes for a swim
suddenly there's gravity lost throughout
the ship and she starts drowning as the
water from the pool moves with her
the gravity drive resets and she barely
makes it out alive
they both run into each other going to
find mancuso the three of them are back
at the bridge
slowly discovering what has been going
on with the ship mancuso figures out
that something happened two years ago
taking out a major system they need to
find and fix what has caused the failure
because the entire ship is trying to
pick up the slack if they don't fix it
the entire vessel will be stranded they
go to find the problem
but nancuso faints so jim and aurora
take him to the infirmary
he's dying and there are no treatments
that can stop it or prolong the time he
has left
some time later the three of them meet
in the observatory and mancuso gives jim
his id bracelet tells them to fix the
ship and immediately perishes
suddenly the lights change to an
alarming red and the ship starts shaking
jim tells aurora that he needs her help
and they run toward engineering
but there's another failure in the
gravity drive and immediate telly
another one that afflicts arthur as well
jim deactivates him they finally arrive
in engineering and start looking for the
problem
they find it in the power plant and as
they open the hatch aurora gets sucked
in
the asteroid has caused a breach in the
hall in that area
jim gets sucked in too but he holds on
to the hatch as it keeps closing on him
eventually he gets sucked in too but
they quickly managed to seal the breach
instantly after fixing that problem jim
realizes that there is more than one
breach in the hall
the two of them follow the trajectory of
the meteor and find that it has hit the
reactor control computer
jim thinks he can find replacement parts
for it they find the part and change it
but the process of venting the reactor
still fails they do it manually
but it fails again jim figures out that
he needs to open the vent door from
outside of the ship
so they can cool the reactor down both
of them go to the airlock and as he's
getting ready to go out
he gives a roar mancuso's bracelet
because he might not come back
she helps him with the suit and as he
walks into the airlock she tells him to
come back because she can't live on the
ship without him
aurora goes back to the reactor where
the temperature has hit critical heights
a bolt from the reactor propels into her
arm as jim is getting closer to the vent
from the outside and sees the door
the temperature rises in the reactor
room while he is trying to bypass the
vent door to open it
he soon realizes that he'll have to
manually hold the door open so the
reactor can vent and he tells aurora
she doesn't like the plan but he goes
ahead with it and tells her to vent the
reactor
she doesn't want him to die and they
argue but he tells her that they have to
save the other people and she vents the
reactor
the process is successful but the fumes
from the reactor push jim away and break
his tether
the pressure in his suit is dropping too
he tells aurora what happened and she
moves as fast as she can to get to
another suit and bring him in
he apologizes to her again she puts on a
suit and flies out to get him
but her tether is too short she's pulled
back but suddenly grabs onto his tether
and manages to pull him in
aurora drags jim into the infirmary only
to find out that he's already dead
she uses mancuso's bracelet to override
the medical protocols and to resuscitate
him
the medical pod does the work
automatically and revives jim
aurora forgives him later aurora fixes
arthur and they give mancuso a proper
space burial
jim takes her to the infirmary and tells
her that he's found a way to use the
medical pot as a hibernation one
he tells her to get inside the pot and
ride out the rest of the journey in
there
but as is later revealed she declines
and decides to stay with him
awake on the ship jim finally proposes
to her and they live out their lives
on the ship 88 years later the avalon
arrives on homestead 2.
the crew wakes up and finds the ship in
a very unexpected state
aurora leaves them a message retelling
the story of the life her and jim had on
the ship while the rest were sleeping
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications so you can watch more
videos like this
thanks for watching